This symposium is
about sharing “the good news of peace.”
What a privilege it is to help humble people
find peace with Jehovah!
At Ephesians 6:15,
in describing
a Christian’s “complete suit of armor,”
it mentions our feet.
Now, back at that time,
thinking of Roman soldiers,
Paul knew that often they marched
for hundreds of miles on Roman highways,
crisscrossing the empire.
So at Ephesians 6:15, he said this:
“Having your feet shod in readiness
[in readiness] to declare
the good news of peace”
—yes, ready to share “the good news of peace”
on every suitable occasion.
In this symposium, we’ll discuss five ways
to remain ready to preach and teach.
We’d first like to discuss
why it’s important to maintain your zeal.
Now, as an analogy,
zeal has often been linked to fire.
We even use the expression
—don’t we?—
“He has a fiery zeal for his beliefs.”
But what does “a fiery zeal” indicate?
Please find Romans 1:14, 15,
and here it does not
actually use the word “zeal,”
but the sense of the word is evident.
You say: “We’re on fire,”
“We’re stoked up,” “We are ready.”
Did you find it?
Romans 1:14, 15:
“Both to Greeks and to foreigners,
both to wise and to senseless ones,
“I am a debtor; so I am eager
“[you see, ready with fiery zeal, eager]
to declare the good news.”
Zealous evangelizers are eager to declare
the good news—they’re “on fire.”
They want others to find peace with Jehovah.
But is there something
that can dampen that flame,
something that could even extinguish
the eager desire
—the readiness—
to find those who
even unknowingly yearn for peace?
Yes,
it can be difficult
to remain eager with fiery zeal
when we face such problems as
an unresponsive territory,
criticism, or outright opposition to the work
—and then there are
the pressures of daily life.
Those issues can also be likened to a fire,
to destructive fires like the wildfires
that have plagued the western part
of the United States year after year.
Those problems can threaten
our zeal and enthusiasm.
So, what can we do?
Well, there’s an English expression
that originates with firefighters.
The expression is “Fight fire with fire.”
In the path of a raging wildfire,
one technique is to ignite a controlled fire.
That controlled fire
consumes combustible materials.
So when the wildfire advances to that point,
there’s no fuel left
and the wildfire goes out.
Fight fire with fire.
Keep your zeal for the ministry
burning brightly.
And now please find 1 Timothy 4:16.
If our zeal fades—the flame smolders—
we might miss out on opportunities
to help others to gain life,
a life of peace with God.
Look at 1 Timothy 4:16 with me.
It says: “Pay constant attention
to yourself and to your teaching”
—you see, the flame, the temperature.
‘Pay attention to your zeal and teaching.’
It says: “Persevere in these things,
“for by doing this
you will save both yourself
and those who listen to you.”
Yes, share “the good news
of peace” with zeal.
Now, in the following video,
note how a couple realized
that the flame had gone out.
They still had some glowing embers left,
but they now find a way to fan the coals
and regain their fiery zeal.
I don’t remember when our routine service day
became so,
well,
routine.
Our zeal wasn’t what it used to be.
And we were finally starting to notice.
Not everyone wants to listen.
We just didn’t want to be the reason.
It didn’t take much research to find
great ideas
and set a few simple goals,
like working with those
who encourage us.
With Ryota and Ami, we’re always talking
about how we can reach the heart.
We got back to basics:
Be friendly,
listen,
let the conversation progress naturally,
try to share an appealing Scriptural thought,
and keep trying.
Our zeal
can attract an honest person
to the truth.
In the video, what wildfires, or problems,
did the couple face that sucked the oxygen
out of their ministry?
Well, of the four we mentioned earlier,
it seems the couple’s zeal was waning
because of seemingly unresponsive territory.
And as tired as the husband looked
in that first scene,
the pressures of daily life
might have been having a toll on him.
So how did they come to realize
that they needed
to fight fire with fire?
Do you remember their kitchen-table talk?
The husband mused
that “not everyone wants to listen.”
But then he added,
“We just didn’t want to be the reason,”
you see, the reason for them not listening.
They decided to fight fire with fire.
They reignited their own
controlled fire of zeal
to counteract the problems
they were succumbing to.
Well, what were some
of the techniques they used?
The first was to pray to Jehovah.
Could it be that the husband borrowed
the words of Romans 12:11 in his prayer?
Yes, he may well have asked
Jehovah to help them
as a couple to “be aglow with the spirit.”
Remember he said earlier,
“I don’t remember when
our routine service day
became so, well, routine.”
Fight the wildfire by, again,
becoming “aglow with the spirit.”
Ensure that any lack of response
is not due to our lackluster approach.
Well, what else did you notice
they did to rekindle their zeal?
They did some research,
looking for suggestions
to invigorate their ministry.
Yes, and regular Bible study
helps us to remember
why we endure in the disciple-making work.
For example, review Jesus’ attitude
toward the ministry.
The apostles’ bold witnessing
despite fiery opposition
and the disposition of Paul,
Aquila and Priscilla, Stephen,
and other Bible characters
—these can infuse us with similar zeal.
Next, keep your ministry fresh.
Well, what does that mean?
Instead of having a number
of phone calls that go unanswered,
which is similar to having no one at home
when in the door-to-door work,
change the time of day for witnessing
to when more people are home.
Participate in various forms of the ministry.
You know, ironically,
the pandemic more or less forced some of us
who were staunch door-to-door Witnesses
to branch out.
We tried phone witnessing and letter writing.
And now we have
a variety of preaching activities,
and this can keep us
more fully engaged and enthused.
And did you notice what the couple
in the video set as a goal?
Periodically, they decided in advance
to share in the ministry
with someone specific.
And then they determined
to talk about encouraging subjects
when in between calls,
whether in phone witnessing
or in the public ministry.
Jehovah values our work in the ministry
regardless of the response we receive.
Hebrews 6:10—are you familiar with that?
Of course you are.
It does not say
that Jehovah does not forget
the number of return visits you make.
It does not say he does not forget
how many Bible studies you conduct.
No, it says he does not
“forget your work [your effort]
and the love you showed for his name.”
Our zeal for the ministry demonstrates
that we have a deep love
for Jehovah and Jesus.
If (like the couple in the video)
you detect that your
routine of service is becoming, well,
very routine, then fight fire with fire.
Maintain that fiery zeal.
Be ready to share “the good news of peace.”
Brother Robert Ciranko,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
will now present
the next talk of this symposium,
“Be Ready to Share ‘the Good News of Peace’
—Prepare Well.”